# The Reactions of the German Stock Market to COVID-19 and Containment Policies: A Vector Autoregressive Analysis!

The infectious respiratory disease Covid-19 caused by the novel corona virus SARS-CoV-2 has been taking its toll on the health of people and economies worldwide. Since its emergence during late 2019 in the Chinese city of Wuhan (Sohrabi et al., 2020), the virus rapidly spread across borders leading to a contraction among millions of people. Governments around the world swiftly reacted by instituting unprecedented containment measures. By March 2020 more than 100 countries have introduced full or partial lockdowns (Hale et al., 2021) and during large periods between 2020 and 2021 social distancing measures as well as local, national and international moving restrictions were put in place as a global race for the development and supply of effective vaccinations unfolded.

While the world has certainly seen different pandemics over the last century, the Covid-19 pandemic remains largely unprecedented in its effects on the global economy and financial markets (Baker et al., 2020). On the one hand this is because pandemics are able to cause immense uncertainty and disruptions to doing business (Correia et al., 2020), while on the other hand, government instituted containment measures massively influence the economic trajectory of societies.

Germany, as one of the largest European countries, has been hit relatively hard when it comes to the sheer number of confirmed cases within the population (Appel et al., 2020). With an economy that is highly dependent on export and international supply chains, a global pandemic like this can have detrimental consequences. As an emergency reaction, German federal and state governments mandated closures of schools, universities and businesses and put in place a wide array of containment and health measures such as mandatory social distancing rules, testing campaigns, and quarantine policies. Likewise, the country’s government has been rolling out support and stimulus packages, including tax-cuts, to support the national economy. In fact, the German fiscal response to the economic fallout has been among the largest worldwide (Germany Measures of the Federal Government, 2021; Policy Responses to COVID19, 2021).

Due to the far-reaching consequences of Covid-19 and the inherently conflicting goals that emerge when trying to contain the virus, the pandemic has drawn a lot of attention to the relationship between economics and public health decisions.  While the long-term economic consequences of the pandemic are still hard to predict, financial markets offer a unique and timely perspective on the state of the economy. Due to the stock market’s ability to provide useful information in fast evolving and complex situations (Wagner, 2020), its reaction to changes in the trajectory of the pandemic can be an important indicator to different stakeholders, including political decision-makers.

Because of the complex emergency situation and a large variety of different government instituted measures, it is, however, not exactly obvious how and why financial markets reacted to the pandemic. While during February and March 2020 global stock prices dropped and experienced extreme volatility with a magnitude comparable to the great financial crisis of 2008 or the black Monday of 1987 (Baker et al., 2020), they quickly rebounded and even reached new all-time-highs in the months thereafter (in footnote auf charts im appendix verweisen).

In order to better understand how the German financial market was influenced by the Covid-19 pandemic, this study sets out to analyze the reactions of the stock market to the trajectory of the pandemic and related containment and health measures. Specifically, this study tries to extract information from forward looking asset prices by fitting a vector autoregressive model to stock price data, a policy stringency index and daily news on reported Covid-19 cases and, as a second step, analyzes how the dynamics changed throughout different phases of the pandemic.
